I am joined by none other than Michael
King. He's the founder and chief
relevance engineer of IPO rank. He put
this whole conference together. He had a
vision and last year we executed and
like once we knew and we knew all along
that this was going to be big. We're
going even bigger this year. So pulling
out all the stops. You can't even handle
what's about to come your way. Mike,
what is going on man? How you doing?
>> I am fantastic and you know eagerly
awaiting SEO week.
It's it's nuts because we are less than
a couple months out. Who knows what even
is going to happen in our industry
between now and then. I almost feel bad
for any SEOs who are putting together
their decks because shit's going to
change. Tell me for you right now in
this moment, what is top of mind when it
comes to AI search?
For me, I think that we are heading very
fast in the hyperpersonalization
realm. Um, and when we talk about AI
search, like people talk about it as
though there's a true distinction
between classic search and AI search.
All search is AI search and it's
actually been that way for a while. So,
my expectation is that they're going to
bring that hyperpersonalization to
classic search as well. And the idea of
there being a single SER that everyone
sees is going to evaporate.
>> That's wild. What are the implications?
I mean, we've already had many
discussions, you and I, about, you know,
the metrics we need to focus on and that
rankings still matter. How is the
hyperpersonalization of classic search
going to impact the way you should think
about rankings?
>> So, it's going to make things way more
persona driven, which we have been for
since Iple Rank existed. in fact before
that. But, you know, I don't think
people are ready to have to think about
that level of dimensionality to their
content. They're going to want to
continue to be like, well, I have my one
piece of content that's for everybody.
And really, you're going to have to
think about like, how do we make a
version of this for a very specific
audience? Otherwise, you're just not
going to be eligible for those um
opportunities in ranking.
>> Okay, so let's get spicy. where next
like 6 to 12 months of SEO like what do
you think is going to either break
people's brains is going to be obvious
or just like what is the direction that
things are going to go in the immediate
future?
>> Frankly, I don't care about SEO. I care
about search. SEO has been so behind the
curve on technology for so long and
there's so many arguments that people
want to have just so they can hear
themselves talk and look at the words
that they type on the internet and I
don't have time for that. Like I live in
the real world where things are changing
fast and dramatically and you know AI is
going to upset so many things like so
many of these tools whether it's clawed
co-work or whatever it is there's so
many different things that are coming
out that are all about all about
automating the minutia that people spend
so much time on. SEO is fighting against
that like oh you can't automate SEO. Yes
you can. Most of what we do is the
equivalent of what's called a ETL
process. So extract, transform, load.
Like you are literally uh scraping data.
You are transforming it in into a sheet
and then you're loading it into a
PowerPoint to talk to people about what
to do. That can be automated and it
will. and even a lot of the actual
execution when we're talking about, you
know, optimizations and things like
that. People do optimizations in very
qualitative ways. These are actually
very quantitative things that machines
are going to be better at. So, I think
realistically this industry is going to
get hit so hard and so many of these
people are going to get, you know,
they're just they're just not going to
have a place to play anymore. And so
rather than running from that, I'm
thinking like how do we embrace that?
How do we get ahead of that? How do we
identify the value that we can continue
to have in that world rather than acting
like that world isn't coming for us?
>> Okay. And so you're jumping right into
these problems or questions that you're
most focused on in your work. How are
you addressing it? Like what are you
doing right now to figure this stuff
out? Yeah, I mean it's what I've always
done, right? Like lots of research and
lots of like building things and playing
with them until I understand how it
works and where the opportunities lie.
Like where I've been spending most of my
time lately has been building software,
you know, like building out better
versions of the things that we've been
doing so that we can set ourselves up
for automation and scale. Um, and also
like as Google and Enthropic, OpenAI
like announced these new technologies in
their research, I'm like cool, how do we
use that? You know, like there's a
library that Google released called Lang
Extract, which really speaks to like how
are they actually extracting this
information from the web? Okay. Well, we
need to be using that. Like, we need to
be doing things in the way that the
platforms we're trying to optimize for
are doing them rather than whatever it
is that SEO's been doing for the last
like 15 years that doesn't really align
with that. I love it. And that and I
mean that's that's at the heart of the
whole concept of relevance engineering
is like the science behind it is taking
tech, taking tools, taking hypotheses,
experimenting, testing, seeing what
works, pivoting for what doesn't. It all
kind of leads into Okay, give us a
tease. I know you're not going to blow
blow everything, but give us a tease on
what attendees might hear about at your
SEO week keynote presentation.
>> Yeah. So, the last few years I've been
complaining about what I was just
complaining about, the fact that the SEO
space is not ready for this stuff. And
one of the biggest reasons for that is
that our software is so behind. Like,
there are so many gaps in what it is
that those platforms are doing and what
we do in the SEO space. And so I decided
I'm going to stop complaining about that
and I'm going to actually give you guys
open-source equivalents of what you need
to close those gaps with the thinking
that you know hopefully more of our
platforms will adopt those things and if
they don't well then everyone is now
armed with the capability of doing it
themselves.
>> God I'm so hyped. I I just can't wait.
You get excited about of of to your
point of what we're capable of now as
these tools advance the coding tools.
Uh, take us back to last year. What were
your most salient memories of the
inaugural SEO week event?
>> Uh, there's so many, you know, like
obviously the the concert was crazy. Um,
you know, so many of the talks, I mean,
I didn't I didn't see a bad talk, right?
Like I expected that there would at
least be one. There was not a single bad
talk at our conference. In fact,
everyone uh came with very actionable
things. Um
yeah, I mean you know so many people
blew me away and the way our team came
together to put it on uh everything that
you know the CKE team did to really
support us and help us get it to the
next level. I mean, I'm just left with
this feeling of like it being greater
than the sum of its parts. You know what
I mean? Like there was so much
so many moments that just felt so good
and like um went over my expectations.
And then it was also cool that my kids
came or at least uh Zora came uh to
watch me speak. Glory was not
interested. And
yeah, that's it. It's it's nuts because
obviously we are going to go bigger this
year, but I was talking with Christian
Ward who's coming up on an upcoming
episode of this podcast and he was there
last year and he said like it felt like
this moment in time between the
inauguration of the conference but also
what was going on in our industry. Like
this was a few months before Google IO
which dropped a lot of new stuff um that
was coming and every talk was leading to
it. Did you get that sense? Did you get
that sense that like our industry will
never feel like what we what we felt at
that that precise moment of SEO week?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think if you look around
after SEO week, like everything
that you heard at other shows started at
SEO week. And you know, you're right,
like it was a very specific point in
time where there was a lot of confusion,
like not knowing what to do next and a
lot of clarity came out of our show. So,
I really appreciated that. And, you
know, with this year, I think we're at
the point where it's like, hey, enough
with the conjecture, enough with like,
hey, here's the theory. Here's what I
think. Where's your data? Where's your
case studies? like what did you do in
the last year that can truly move this
stuff forward? And that's what I'm
excited to see this year.
>> So, so there you go. I mean, if you
haven't gotten your tickets yet, you
have no excuse. Um, the prices are only
going to go up at this point. It is the
end of April, the 27th to the 30th. Um,
it's going to be amazing. We have 39
incredible speakers. I can't wait to be
there. If you need like support in how
to get there, we have a blog on our on
the seoeek.org that has various email
templates that you can send to your
boss. And if you are the CEO or CMO of
your team and you're wondering what to
do next, you should send your whole
team. So like Mike, give us your last
kind of pitch of like why do you think
people should come to SEO week this
year?
>> Uh
I don't have to pitch you on anything.
You know who I am. You know what I do?
You knew how we have led this thing for
years now. So if you want it from the
source, that's where you go. And if you
don't, well, your competitors are going.
So see you in the SERs and the chats.
>> There you go. We'll see you at SEO Week
2026, New York City, end of April. Sign
off. Peace.